ntheorem.dtx includes the style-file, a standard configuration, and the
documentation.  Additional information (including a test-file) is
available at

    http://user.informatik.uni-goettingen.de/~may/Ntheorem/

We recommend placing the unpacked files (and this message) in an extra
directory

    macros/latex/contrib/ntheorem/

Wolfgang May & Andreas Schedler

--------------------

Abstract:

ntheorem.sty for LaTeX

by Wolfgang May and Andreas Schedler

ntheorem.sty is a package for handling theorem-like environments.
Aditionally to several features for defining the layout of
theorem-like environments which can be regarded to be standard
requirements for a theorem-package, it provides solutions for two
related problems:  placement of endmarks and generation of lists
of theorem-like environments.

In contrast to former approaches, it solves the problem of
setting endmarks of theorem-like environments (theorems,
definitions, examples, and proofs) automatically at the right
positions, even if the environment ends with a displaymath or
(even nested) list environments, it also copes with the amsmath
package.  This is done in the same manner as the handling of
labels by using the .aux file.

It also introduces the generation of lists of theorem-like
environments in the same manner as listoffigures. Additionally,
more comfortable referencing is supported.

After running LaTeX several times (depending on the complexity of
references, in general, three runs are sufficient), the endmarks
are set correctly, and theoremlists are generated.

Since ntheorem.sty uses the standard LaTeX \newtheorem command,
existing documents can be switched to ntheorem.sty without having
to change the .tex file.  Also, it is compatible with LaTeX files
using theorem.sty written by Frank Mittelbach.

Features:

 * General Layout of Theorems:
   different predefined theoremstyles, according to theorem.sty,
   defining own theoremstyles by \newtheoremstyle,
 * Placement of End Marks:
   automatically setting end marks for theorem-like environments
   in text, math environments, lists etc.,
 * Generation of Theorem Lists:
   Generation of list-of-theorem similar to list-of-figures,
   different predefined liststyles, according to theorem.sty,
   defining own liststyles by \newliststyle,
 * Referencing:
   Extended referencing feature, yielding, e.g. "Theorem 42".
