
SWIMGRAF PACKAGE
================

This material is subject to the LaTeX Project Public License.  See
  http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/help/Catalogue/licenses.lppl.html
for details.

DESCRIPTION
-----------

The package provides two macros that produce representations of a swimmer's
performances.  The user records data in a text file and specifies as arguments
of the macros the date range in which she is interested; the macros extract the
relevant information from the file and process it as follows.
 * \swimgraph produces a graph of the times in a single swimming event
(specified as an argument), plotting long course and short course times in
separate lines.  Records and qualifying times, stored in text files, may
optionally be included on the graph.
 * \swimtext produces a written record of the times in all events.

Files of current world and Canadian records are included.

The package requires the PSTricks and keyval packages.  For attractive output,
it requires also a color output device.

FILES INCLUDED IN ZIP FILE
--------------------------

To be put in TeX input directory:
  swimgraf.sty (LaTeX style file)
  swimgraf.cfg (configuration file, read by swimgraf.sty)
To be put in documentation directory:
  swimgraf.pdf (documentation)
  sample1.dat (sample data file)
  sample2.dat (sample data file)
  100br1.tex (sample file)
  100br1.pdf (output of 100br1.tex)
  100br2.tex (sample file)
  100br2.pdf (output of 100br2.tex)
  text1.tex (sample file)
  text1.pdf (output of text1.tex)
  text2.tex (sample file)
  text2.pdf (output of text2.tex)
  readme.txt (this file)
To be put in directory where you keep records files (e.g. \swimming) (optional)
  fworld.dat (female world records)
  mworld.dat (male world records)
  fcanada.dat (female Canadian records)
  mcanada.dat (male Canadian records)
  fcanada11.dat (female Canadian records for 11 year olds)
  fcanada12.dat (female Canadian records for 12 year olds)
  fcanada13.dat (female Canadian records for 13 year olds)
  fcanada14.dat (female Canadian records for 14 year olds)
  fcanada15.dat (female Canadian records for 15 year olds)
  fcanada16.dat (female Canadian records for 16 year olds)
  fcanada17.dat (female Canadian records for 17 year olds)
  fontario8.dat (female qualifying times for Ontario provincial championships
                 for 8 year olds)
  fontario9.dat (female qualifying times for Ontario provincial championships
                 for 9 year olds)
  fontario10.dat (female qualifying times for Ontario provincial championships
                 for 10 year olds)
  fontario11.dat (female qualifying times for Ontario provincial championships
                 for 11 year olds)
  fontario12.dat (female qualifying times for Ontario provincial championships
                 for 12 year olds)
  fontario13.dat (female qualifying times for Ontario provincial championships
                 for 13 year olds)
  fontario14.dat (female qualifying times for Ontario provincial championships
                 for 14 year olds)
  fontario15.dat (female qualifying times for Ontario provincial championships
                 for 15 year olds)
  fontario16.dat (female qualifying times for Ontario provincial championships
                 for 16 year olds)
  fontario17.dat (female qualifying times for Ontario provincial championships
                 for 17 year olds)

