readme

This file describes setting up newlfm.cls, the class file which contains the
information about the new letter, fax and memo class newlfm.  newlfm creates
two additional .sty files, addrset.sty and setdim.sty.  These support the
processing performed by newlfm.

newlfm uses a number of external .sty files to perform various functions.
Please get the current version of these .sty files from better CTAN
locations everywhere, install them as requested and update your configuration as
necessary.  

These files are as follows:

.sty File      CTAN Location                             Retrieve?
mdwlist        macros/latex/contrib/supported/mdwtools   Entire subdirectory  
fancyhdr       macros/latex/contrib/supported/fancyhdr   Entire subdirectory  
envlab         macros/latex/contrib/supported/envlab     Entire subdirectory  
graphics       dviware/ln03/rmcs                         Specific file

Setup procedure:

1) Use a temporary working subdirectory.  Unpack the newlfm archive file by
using an appropriate tool, if you have an archive file.  These tools are
widely available.  If you do not have them, please check CTAN.  Otherwise
just copy the files from the newlfm archive location in CTAN.

2) Start up a OS command frame (MS-DOS command prompt, unix console).  The OS 
command frame must be able to access some TeX version, and that is your
responsibility.  The setup procedure here requires access to TeX and more
specifically to LaTeX.

3) The setup utility assumes that you are running dvips as your printer
driver.  If not, you must change make_win.bat or make_unix.

4) make .cls and .sty files:

This acts to setup the program, by running the various components in the
correct order.

a) Win family: type

make_win

To check on commands:

type make_win.bat

b) unix/linux family: type

make_unix

To check on commands:

more make_unix

5) After running the make utility, print copies of the demonstration letters test1
- test7. Print these letters and examine them.  Here is a brief description:

(a) test1 is a standard letter, with a little palm tree in the left header
and a motto in Large bf text in the footer.  A signature is printed in the signature 
block.  It has a FAX cover page.  

(b) test2 is a standard memo, with a large palm tree at an odd angle in the
top margin, centered.  It is written in pig latin, or ig-pay atin-lay.  This
is a dialect of American English popular among 8 year olds.  

(c) test3 is a full memo, with a smaller memo space (144pt margins on either
side).  It has all address information in both the "from" and "to" sections
of the memo.  

(d) test4 is a business letter with a header file containing a small palm
tree and a firm identification section in the left margin.  

(e) test5 is a business letter with a header file containing a small palm
tree and a firm identification section in the left margin.  It also has a
table, built in the standard table fashion, included.  

(f) test6 is a form letter, which prints letters to two different persons,
including a fax header page for each.  

(g) test7 is a form letter file, which prints letters to two different persons,
including a fax header page for each.  In addition, it changes the order of
the date and from addresses, and fiddles with the spacing.

(h) test8 is a form letter file, which prints letters to three different
persons from a list command multletter, including a fax header page for
each.  In addition, it changes the order of the date and from addresses, and
fiddles with the spacing.  This file also illustrates the use of the stored
letter dimensional information, stored in the letters database letrinfo.tex.

(i) test9 is a form letter file, which prints letters to three different
persons from a list command multletter, including a fax header page for
each.  In addition, it changes the order of the date and from addresses, and
fiddles with the spacing.  This file also illustrates the use of the stored
letter dimensional information, stored in the letters database letrinfo.tex.

(j) test10 is a letter showing inclusion of nameto and namefr options
directly rather than through the letrinfo file.  It prints them in cello-window form.

(k) test11 is a press release.

6) newlfm.zip includes all files necessary to perform the demos.
(a) After executing the setup utility, all files in these packages should
be placed on your LaTeX path.  You may wish to place them in your "local
site" tree, which is the LaTeX storage location for local files.  Ensure
that the local LaTeX path is executed or searched after the default LaTeX
path.

(b) Place all files newlfm.* on the "local site" tree, in the location for
LaTeX files.  In addition, letrinfo.tex and extracd.tex are both placed on
the "local site" tree.  They should probably for simplicity be placed at the
same location as is newlfm.cls.

In that way, when you replace or upgrade, information for the use of newlfm
(in particular, your letrinfo.tex file) will not be deleted inadvertantly.

7) newlfm.dvi (and probably newlfm.ps) are produced by the setup utility.
This is a result of the docstrip program's extraction from newlfm.dtx of the
instructions for the newlfm.dtx class.  Please print this and check it for
simple information about the class.

8) Bugs and problems may be reported to 

Paul A. Thompson, Ph.D.
Div of Biostatistics
Box 8067, Washington University School of Medicine
St. Louis, MO 63110

paul@wubios.wustl.edu

If you wish me to examine anything, please send a gzipped tar file
containing all sources (this includes letrinfo.tex and extracd.tex).  I will
try to run your example.  NOTE: First step of debugging is to ensure that
newlfm.cls is the same as mine; I don't look at your version of my class
file.  Please be sure that you have read the documentation first, however.

MANIFEST OF ALL NEWLFM COMPONENTS

This is a manifest of all files currently used in newlfm.  It can serve as a
checklist for users to ensure that all files for the class are present.

extracd.tex        Pattern file to enable users to change phrases for letter components 
letrinfo.tex       Letter database file for examples
lvb.eps            Signature of Ludwig von Beetfonten
makeclean_win.bat  Clean up the subdirectory on a Windows box
make_clean         Clean up the subdirectory on a unix box 
make_unix          Make .cls, .sty, manual and all examples on unix box
make_win.bat       Make .cls, .sty, manual and all examples on Windows box
newlfm.dtx         Source for newlfm and all associated program
newlfm.ins         File to produce newlfm.cls
newlfm.txt         A blurb about newlfm
newlfm.zip         .zip file containing all parts of the system
palm.eps           Palm tree used in examples
README             Instructions for setting up system   
sfaxpage.tex       Pattern for FAX header page, modifiable by the user
smemosec.tex       Pattern for the memo block, modifiable by the user
sprsrls.tex        Pattern for the press release, modifiable by the user
test1.tex          Example file 1 
test2.tex          Example file 2 
test3.tex          Example file 3 
test4.tex          Example file 4 
test5.tex          Example file 5 
test6.tex          Example file 6 
test7.tex          Example file 7 
test8.tex          Example file 8 
test9.tex          Example file 9 
test10.tex         Example file 10 
test11.tex         Example file 11
test12.tex         Example file 12
test1alt.tex       Example file 1, alternative option specification (old style)
test2alt.tex       Example file 2, alternative option specification (old style)
test3alt.tex       Example file 3, alternative option specification (old style)
test4alt.tex       Example file 4, alternative option specification (old style)
test5alt.tex       Example file 5, alternative option specification (old style)
test6alt.tex       Example file 6, alternative option specification (old style)
test7alt.tex       Example file 7, alternative option specification (old style)
test8alt.tex       Example file 8, alternative option specification (old style)
wine.eps           Picture of some wine bottles

newlfm uses internally defined macros to set up fax header pages, memo
header blocks and press releases.  To customize these for yourself:

1) Change sfaxpage.tex to faxpage.tex for the fax page and modify it as needed; or
2) Change smemosec.tex to memosec.tex for the memo block and modify it as needed; 
3) Change sprsrls.tex to prsrls.tex for the press release and modify it as needed.

Modification of the files is in the hands of the user.  Your mileage may
vary.  As developer and supporter of newlfm, I specifically exclude support
for user modifications, but will consider a consulting arrangement at the
user's discretion.




