This is the README for the cinzel package, version 2014-05-24.

This package provides LaTeX, pdfLaTeX, XeLaTeX and LuaLaTeX support
for the Cinzel and Cinzel Decorative families of fonts, designed
by Natanael Gama (www.ndiscovered.com). Cinzel is a typeface
inspired in first century roman inscriptions, and based on classical
proportions. While it conveys all the ancient history of the latin
alphabet it also merges a contemporary feel onto it.

Cinzel is all-caps, similar to Trajan and Michelangelo, but is
available in three weights (Regular, Bold, Black). There are no
italic fonts, but there are Decorative variants, which can be
selected by the usual italic-selection commands.

To install this package on a TDS-compliant TeX system, download
the file "tex-archive"/install/fonts/cinzel.tds.zip where the
preferred URL for "tex-archive" is http://mirrors.ctan.org. Unzip
the archive at the root of an appropriate texmf tree, likely a
personal or local tree. If necessary, update the file-name database
(e.g., texhash). Update the font-map files by enabling the Map file
cinzel.map.

To use, add

\usepackage{cinzel}

to the preamble of your document. This will activate Cinzel as the
main (serifed) text font and Cinzel Decorative as the "italic"
variants.

The black option selects the Black variants as the default bold
series.

LuaLaTeX and xeLaTeX users who might prefer type1 fonts or who wish
to avoid fontspec may use the type1 option.

The only figure style is proportional-lining.

Font encodings supported are OT1, T1, LY1 and TS1.

Command \cinzel allows for localized use of Cinzel (and Cinzel
Decorative). Command \cinzelblack allows for localized use of the
Black series.

The truetype fonts were downloaded from
http://www.google.com/webfonts and are licensed under the SIL Open
Font License, (version 1.1); the text may be found in the doc
directory. The type1 versions were created using fontforge. The
support files were created using autoinst and are licensed under the
terms of the LaTeX Project Public License. The maintainer of this
package is Bob Tennent (rdt at cs.queensu.ca).
