Font: Cyklop
Author: Janusz Marian Nowacki, Grudziadz, Poland
Version: 0.915
Date: December 2008
Licence:
 % Copyright 2008 Janusz M. Nowacki.
 % This work is released under the GUST Font License
 % This work has the LPPL maintenance status "author-maintained".
 % This work consists of the files listed in the MANIFEST.txt file.

The Cyclop typeface was designed in the 1920s at the workshop of Warsaw
type foundry "Odlewnia Czcionek J. Idzkowski i S-ka". This sans serif
typeface has a highly modulated stroke so it has high typographic
contrast. The vertical stems are much heavier then horizontal ones.
Most characters have thin rectangles as additional counters giving the
unique shape of the characters.

The lead types of Cyclop typeface were produced in slanted variant at
sizes 8-48 pt. It was heavily used for heads in newspapers and
accidents prints. Typesetters used Cyclop in the inter-war period,
during the occupation in the underground press. The typeface was used
until the beginnings of the offset print and computer typesetting
era. Nowadays it is hard to find the metal types of this typeface.

The font was generated using the Metatype1 package. Then the original
set of characters was completed by adding the full set of accented
letters and characters of the modern Latin alphabets (including
Vietnamese).

The upright variant was generated and it was more complicated task
than it appeared at the beginning. 11 upright letters of the Cyclop
typeface were presented in the book by Filip Trzaska, "Podstawy
techniki wydawniczej" ("Foundation of the publishing techonology"),
Warsaw 1967. But even the author of the book does not know what was
the source of the presented examples.

The fonts are distributed in the Type1 and OpenType formats along with the
files necessary for use these fonts in TeX and LaTeX including
encoding definition files: T1 (ec), T5 (Vietnamese), OT4, QX, texnansi
and nonstandard ones (IL2 for Czech fonts).

History:
Version 0.8 was presented on EuroBachoTeX-2007 conference in May, 2007.

Version 0.9 was corrected as suggested by testers.

Version 0.91: corrected .tfm metric files and .fd files for LaTeX.

Vession 0.915: corrected internal comments in OpenType files.

http://jmn.pl/cyklop.html
e-mail: janusz@jmn.pl
