manifest.txt
Copyright 2014 Clea F. Rees

This work may be distributed and/or modified under the
conditions of the LaTeX Project Public License, either version 1.3
of this license or (at your option) any later version.
The latest version of this license is in
  http://www.latex-project.org/lppl.txt
and version 1.3 or later is part of all distributions of LaTeX
version 2005/12/01 or later.

This work has the LPPL maintenance status `maintained'.

The Current Maintainer of this work is Clea F. Rees.

This work consists of all files listed in manifest.txt.

All TeX Font Metric files (suffix .tfm in subdirectory fonts/tfm),
Virtual Fonts (suffix  .vf in subdirectory fonts/vf) etc. are
derived from the relevant Latin Modern fonts, version 2.004,
released by GUST and available from
http://www.gust.org.pl/projects/e-foundry/latin-modern. The TFM and
VF files are derived specifically from the Adobe Font Metric (suffix
.afm) and TeX Font Metric (suffix .tfm) files supplied with the 
postscript type 1 version of the fonts.

The encoding t1-clm.etx is derived from the file t1.etx supplied with
fontinst. A copy of fontinst including an unmodified copy of t1.etx is 
available from http://mirror.ctan.org/fonts/utilities/fontinst.

Warning - Experimental
----------------------

When I first released this package onto an unsuspecting (and largely
uninterested) world, I included the following warning:
	This package is EXPERIMENTAL. I have never released any kind of 
	software before. I know nothing about it. I have tested this 
	package on every system I can - that is, on one machine running
	one OS. Mine. It works for me. I've been using this package as 
	my primary font package for months and it has worked fine. But
	it may not work for you. Although I am pretty sure it won't run
	off with your savings - a fact possibly worth mentioning in the
	current climate - or sit around drinking your coffee and raiding
	your fridge, it will not surprise me if it just doesn't work. If
	it doesn't work, please let me know what goes wrong as I would
	like to fix it if I can. That's a big if, though, so if you know
	how to fix it, telling me that would be even better.

This version of the package has benefited greatly from feedback
provided by Enrico Gregorio, who essentially rewrote the style file
using keyval to show me how I ought to be setting the various options
up, and Lars Hellström who demonstrated considerable patience in 
answering my many questions about using fontinst and some peculiarities
of the Latin Modern fonts.

Nonetheless, would-be users should bear the above warning in mind.
Although I trust the package enough for it to be my default font
package for most purposes, it does not mean you should. You should
examine the output especially carefully if you typeset accented
characters, especially those which do not occur in English or Welsh
text as these are the only languages I typeset more than a word or two
of once in a blue moon.

Moreover, version 1.4 adds experimental support for microtype. While this 
should work fine since it basically uses the settings for Latin Modern and
Computer Modern Roman, I'm far from confident about this.

Documentation
-------------

See cfr-lm.tex/cfr-lm.pdf for information about installation, requirements
and usage.


Clea F. Rees
ReesC21 <at> cardiff <dot> ac <dot> uk
2014/03/01
